osdocs10893rn: Release note for dynamic configuration manager (#86792)
openshift/openshift-docs: release_notes/ocp-4-18-release-notes.adoc

For more information, see xref:../networking/ovn_kubernetes_network_provider/ovn-kubernetes-troubleshooting-sources.adoc#nw-ovn-kubernetes-observability_ovn-kubernetes-sources-of-troubleshooting-information[Checking OVN-Kubernetes network traffic with OVS sampling using the CLI].

[id="ocp-release-notes-networking-dynamic-config-manager_{context}"]
=== The dynamic configuration manager is enabled by default (Technology Preview)

> Using the dynamic configuration manager on template routers (such as HAProxy) to propagate route and endpoint changes through a dynamic API allows the underlying router to adapt to changes efficiently and ensures that the system can scale and adjust as needed. 

Reviewer: The dynamic configuration manager is not enabled by default (Technology Preview), it is enabled by default after the GA. need enable feature gate for Dynamic Configuration Manager by by enabled TechPreviewNoUpgrade featureSet
`% oc patch featuregates cluster -p '{"spec": {"featureSet": "TechPreviewNoUpgrade"}}' --type=merge`

Author: Thanks! I've updated the doc.

The dynamic configuration manager is enabled by default. You can disable the dynamic configuration manager by setting the `ROUTER_HAPROXY_CONFIG_MANAGER` environment variable to `false` (or `FALSE`).

> 

Reviewer: After GA, the dynamic configuration manager is enabled by default.

> In {product-title} 4.18, the dynamic configuration manager is enabled by default. This feature is available as a Technology Preview in {product-title} 4.18. Using the dynamic configuration manager on template routers (like HAProxy) to propagate route and endpoint changes through a dynamic API allows the underlying router to adapt to changes efficiently and ensures that the system can scale and adjust as needed. 
> 
> The dynamic configuration manager is enabled when the `ROUTER_HAPROXY_CONFIG_MANAGER` environment variable to `true` (or `TRUE`). You can disable the dynamic configuration manager by setting the `ROUTER_HAPROXY_CONFIG_MANAGER` environment variable to `false` (or `FALSE`).

Reviewer 2: Maybe we can tighten this up a bit? Do we need to mention in 4.18, when this is the 4.18 release notes?
```suggestion
Using the dynamic configuration manager on template routers (such as HAProxy) to propagate route and endpoint changes through a dynamic API allows the underlying router to adapt to changes efficiently and ensures that the system can scale and adjust as needed. 

The dynamic configuration manager is enabled by default. You can disable the dynamic configuration manager by setting the `ROUTER_HAPROXY_CONFIG_MANAGER` environment variable to `false` (or `FALSE`).
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

For more information, see xref:../networking/ovn_kubernetes_network_provider/ovn-kubernetes-troubleshooting-sources.adoc#nw-ovn-kubernetes-observability_ovn-kubernetes-sources-of-troubleshooting-information[Checking OVN-Kubernetes network traffic with OVS sampling using the CLI].

[id="ocp-release-notes-networking-dynamic-config-manager_{context}"]
=== The dynamic configuration manager is enabled by default (Technology Preview)

> The dynamic configuration manager is enabled by default in technology preview. You can reduce your memory footprint by using the dynamic configuration manager on ingress controllers to propogate endpoint changes through a dynamic API that enables the underlying routers to adapt to changes (scale ups and scale downs) without reloads. 

Reviewer 3: In addition to the following, isn't "Ingress" typically capitalized?
```suggestion
The dynamic configuration manager is enabled by default as a Technology Preview. You can reduce your memory footprint by using the dynamic configuration manager on ingress controllers to propagate endpoint changes through a dynamic API that enables the underlying routers to adapt to changes (scale ups and scale downs) without reloads. 
```

The first line doesn't really add anything over the title, you could probably remove it:
```suggestion
You can reduce your memory footprint by using the dynamic configuration manager on ingress controllers to propagate endpoint changes through a dynamic API that enables the underlying routers to adapt to changes (scale ups and scale downs) without reloads. 
```

Possible to break up the very long remaining sentence into a couple sentences?

You can use the dynamic configuration manager by enabling the `TechPreviewNoUpgrade` feature set.

[source,terminal]
----

> % oc patch featuregates cluster -p '{"spec": {"featureSet": "TechPreviewNoUpgrade"}}' --type=merge

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
$ oc patch featuregates cluster -p '{"spec": {"featureSet": "TechPreviewNoUpgrade"}}' --type=merge
```

For more information, see xref:../networking/ovn_kubernetes_network_provider/ovn-kubernetes-troubleshooting-sources.adoc#nw-ovn-kubernetes-observability_ovn-kubernetes-sources-of-troubleshooting-information[Checking OVN-Kubernetes network traffic with OVS sampling using the CLI].

[id="ocp-release-notes-networking-dynamic-config-manager_{context}"]
=== The dynamic configuration manager is enabled by default (Technology Preview)

> The dynamic configuration manager is available in technology preview. Using the dynamic configuration manager on template routers (such as HAProxy) to propagate route and endpoint changes through a dynamic API allows the underlying router to adapt to changes efficiently and ensures that the system can scale and adjust as needed. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The dynamic configuration manager is enabled by default in technology preview. Using the dynamic configuration manager on ingresscontrollers allows to propagate endpoint changes through a dynamic API enabling the underlying routers to adapt to changes (scale ups and scale downs) without reloads which help to reduce the memory footprint. 
```

- DCM doesn't handle route update, only endpoints.
- We have to explain the benefit of DCM - scale ups and downs may be handled without the router reloads, which helps to reduce the memory consumption.

Author: Oh got it. Thanks!

You can use the dynamic configuration manager by enabling the `TechPreviewNoUpgrade` feature set.

[source,terminal]
----
% oc patch featuregates cluster -p '{"spec": {"featureSet": "TechPreviewNoUpgrade"}}' --type=merge
----

> Set the `ROUTER_HAPROXY_CONFIG_MANAGER` environment variable to `true` (or `TRUE`) to enable the dynamic configuration manager or `false` (or `FALSE`) to disable it.

Reviewer 4: This is unsupported, we should not mention this.

Author: Done. Thanks!
